# S3

## Pricing
<details>
  <summary>
S3 Pricing
  </summary>
S3 cost depends on 3 things:

* *Storage*: Size of stored objects.
* *Data Transfer*: Data transfer out from S3 to internet.
* *# of API requests*: GET, PUT, COPY, POST etc.

S3 offers 4 storage classes:

* *Standard Storage*: Default option.
* *Infrequent Access Storage*: Storage is cheaper, API requests are expensive.
* *Reduced Redundancy Storage*: Slightly cheaper than standard since it does not replicate objects as many times as standard storage.
* *Glacier*: Lowest storage cost. Good for data that is rarely retrieved, and retrieval latency of several hours is acceptable.
</details>

## Cost optimization tips

<details>
  <summary>
Automatically convert between storage classes with object lifecycle management
  </summary>

### Automatically convert between storage classes with object lifecycle management
We can [programatically configure rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/object-lifecycle-mgmt.html) for data deletion or migration between types of S3 storage classes to optimize S3 cost. E.g. While pushing logs we can program it to stay in standard storage for a month then moved to infrequent access for 6 months to be eventually deleted.
</details>
<br>

<details>
  <summary>
Spin up other AWS services in the same region as the S3 bucket from which they consume data
  </summary>

### Spin up other AWS services in the same region as the S3 bucket from which they consume data
Data transfer from S3 to any service(s) within the same region is free. It’s best to spin up Ec2 machines, EMR cluster in the same region as S3 bucket it’s going consuming data from to avoid incurring unnecessary charges.
</details>
<br>


<details>
  <summary>
Consolidate objects when possible
  </summary>

### Consolidate objects when possible
If you access certain set of S3 objects together, it’s best to compress and store them as a single object. This way you save lot of API calls, compression gives you some saving in the storage, plus object gets retrieved faster.
</details>
<br>

